# Google Data Analytics Capstone: Bellabeat Case Study

## Introduction
In this case study I will perform many real-world tasks of a junior data analyst. In order to answer the key business questions, I will follow the steps of the data analysis process: ask, prepare, process, analyze, share, and act. 

SQL Queries:

Data Visualization:asdas

##Background

Urška Sršen and Sando Mur founded Bellabeat, a high-tech company that manufactures health-focused smart products. Sršen used her background as an artist to develop beautifully designed technology that informs and inspires women around the world. Collecting data on activity, sleep, stress, and reproductive health has allowed Bellabeat to empower women with knowledge about their own health and habits. Since it was founded in 2013, Bellabeat has grown rapidly and quickly positioned itself as a tech-driven wellness company for women. By 2016, Bellabeat had opened offices around the world and launched multiple products. Bellabeat products became available through a growing number of online retailers in addition to their own e-commerce channel on their website. The company has invested in traditional advertising media, such as radio, out-of-home billboards, print, and television, but focuses on digital marketing extensively. Bellabeat invests year-round in Google Search, maintaining active Facebook and Instagram pages, and consistently engages consumers on Twitter. Additionally, Bellabeat runs video ads on Youtube and display ads on the Google Display Network to support campaigns around key marketing dates. Sršen knows that an analysis of Bellabeat’s available consumer data would reveal more opportunities for growth. She has asked the marketing analytics team to focus on a Bellabeat product and analyze smart device usage data in order to gain insight into how people are already using their smart devices. Then, using this information, she would like high-level recommendations for how these trends can inform Bellabeat marketing strategy.

#STEP 1 - ASK

##Business Task
Sršen asks you to analyze smart device usage data in order to gain insight into how consumers use non-Bellabeat smart devices. She then wants you to select one Bellabeat product to apply these insights to in your presentation. 

## Business Objective
1. What are some trends in smart device usage? 
2. How could these trends apply to Bellabeat customers? 
3. How could these trends help influence Bellabeat marketing strategy? 

##Deliverables: 
1. A clear summary of the business task 
2. A description of all data sources used 
3. Documentation of any cleaning or manipulation of data 
4. A summary of your analysis 
5. Supporting visualizations and key findings 
6. Your top high-level content recommendations based on your analysis

##Key Stakeholders:
1. Urška Sršen: Bellabeat’s cofounder and Chief Creative Officer 
2. Sando Mur: Mathematician, Bellabeat’s cofounder and key member of the Bellabeat executive team 
3. Bellabeat marketing analytics team: A team of data analysts guiding Bellabeat's marketing strategy.

# Step 2 - PREPARE
## Information on Data Source:
1. The data is publicly available on Kaggle: FitBit Fitness Tracker Data and stored in 18 csv files.
2. Generated by respondents from a distributed survey via Amazon Mechanical Turk between 12 March 2016 to 12 May 2016.
3. 30 FitBit users who consented to the submission of personal tracker data.
4. Data collected includes (1) physical activity recorded in minutes, (2) heart rate, (3) sleep monitoring, (4) daily activity and (5) steps.

## Limitations of Data Set:
1. Data collected from year 2016. Users' daily activity, fitness and sleeping habits, diet and food consumption may have changed since then, hence data may not be timely or relevant.
2. Sample size of 30 female FitBit users is not representative of the entire female population.
3. As data is collected in a survey, hence unable to ascertain the integrity or accuracy of data.

## Is Data ROCCC?
ROCCC - Reliable, Original, Comprehensive, Current, and Cited.

Reliable - LOW - Not reliable as it only has 30 respondents
Original - LOW - Third party provider (Amazon Mechanical Turk)
Comprehensive - MED - Parameters match most of Bellabeat's products' parameters
Current - LOW - Data is 5 years old and is not relevant
Cited - LOW - Data collected from third party, hence unknown
Overall, the dataset is considered bad quality data and it is not recommended to produce business recommendations based on this data.

## Data Selection:
The following file is selected and copied for analysis.

    • dailyActivity_merged.csv
